# Master-s-thesis
Vehicle detection using machine learning algorithms

This thesis examined the use of machine learning methods for efficient parking space occupancy detection, using magnetic field analysis. A system of three parking spaces was built for this purpose. The spaces were equipped with magnetic field sensors, integrated with a microcontroller. The microcontrollers connected via radio to the master, which was their default gateway. The microcontrollers handling the sensors and the master had ready code written in Arduino language in Sloeber environment, however it was modified for the purpose of this project. The master was communicating with the computer through the serial port. Initially, it was considered to use Raspberry Pi 4 as the computer unit, however, it was finally decided to use a portable laptop. The data received on the computer unit allowed for the collection of training and testing collection for machine learning algorithms. Six different algorithms were tested and based on the results the kNN algorithm was chosen as the most optimal one for the considered problem. After selecting the algorithm the implementation of the real system was started. A python script was created to read data from the serial port and predict the occupancy of parking spaces in real-time. In order to verify the system, a website was created using Flask framework and running on localhost. It allowed visualization of the data in the browser. Once the entire system was completed, it was tested under laboratory conditions and in a real parking lot, yielding efficiency results of 90% and 87.5%, respectively. The errors in the final tests were likely due to poor balancing of the training set, resulting in a large classification error for one class.
